docs/design/engine.md, before:

# Engine Module Spec

The engine module (`engine/`) orchestrates the sync pipeline. It receives a `Plan`, a `Provider`, and a `BodyRenderer` via dependency injection and runs a multi-phase sync that creates/updates work items in the external system.

The engine is the primary consumer of all Contracts (see [contracts.md](contracts.md) for type definitions).

## SyncEngine Class

```python
class SyncEngine:
    def __init__(
        self,
        provider: Provider,
        renderer: BodyRenderer,
        config: PlanPilotConfig,
        *,
        dry_run: bool = False,
    ) -> None: ...

    async def sync(self, plan: Plan, plan_id: str) -> SyncResult: ...
```

The engine receives a fully constructed `Provider`, a `BodyRenderer`, config, and a `dry_run` flag. In apply mode, the provider is already entered/authenticated by the SDK. In dry-run mode, the SDK injects `DryRunProvider` (no external I/O). The `Plan` and its deterministic `plan_id` are passed to `sync()` — the SDK handles plan loading and hash computation.

### Concurrency Model

The engine processes item types sequentially (epics -> stories -> tasks) — parents must exist before children. Within each type level, operations are dispatched concurrently, gated by `asyncio.Semaphore(config.max_concurrent)`.

```python
self._semaphore = asyncio.Semaphore(config.max_concurrent)  # valid range: 1..10

async def _guarded(self, coro: Coroutine) -> T:
    async with self._semaphore:
        return await coro
```

The engine owns dispatch concurrency. The provider owns per-call reliability (retries, backoff). See [providers.md](../modules/providers.md) for the provider-side contract.

**`max_concurrent = 1` (default):** Fully sequential — safe, predictable, no concurrency edge cases.
**`max_concurrent > 1`:** Same-level operations run concurrently. Errors from any task fail the entire level (fail-fast via `asyncio.TaskGroup`).

## Sync Pipeline

```mermaid
flowchart TB
    subgraph Discovery["Phase 1: Discovery"]
        D1["provider.search_items(label + PLAN_ID)"]
        D2["parse metadata blocks from Item.body"]
        D3["build existing_map: dict[item_id, Item]"]
        D1 --> D2 --> D3
    end

    subgraph Upsert["Phase 2: Upsert"]
        U1["for each type level (epics -> stories -> tasks):"]
        U2["concurrent within level (semaphore-gated)"]
        U3{"item in existing_map?"}
        U4["skip create"]
        U5["provider.create_item(CreateItemInput)"]
        U6["sync_map.entries[item.id] = to_sync_entry(item)"]
        U1 --> U2 --> U3
        U3 -- Yes --> U4 --> U6
        U3 -- No --> U5 --> U6
    end

    subgraph Enrich["Phase 3: Enrich"]
        E1["all items concurrent (semaphore-gated)"]
        E2["renderer.render(item, full RenderContext)"]
        E3["provider.update_item(id, UpdateItemInput)"]
        E1 --> E2 --> E3
    end

    subgraph Relations["Phase 4: Relations"]
        R1["all relations concurrent (semaphore-gated)"]
        R2["item.set_parent / item.add_dependency"]
        R3["includes parent roll-ups"]
        R1 --> R2 --> R3
    end

    subgraph Result["Phase 5: Result"]
        RT["return SyncResult(sync_map, items_created, dry_run)"]
    end

    Discovery --> Upsert --> Enrich --> Relations --> Result
```

In dry-run mode, the same pipeline runs against `DryRunProvider` so rendering/context logic is exercised without external API calls. The SDK persists dry-run output to `<sync_path>.dry-run`.

## Phase 1: Discovery

**Goal:** Find items that already exist in the provider for this plan, so we can skip re-creating them.

**Source of truth:** Provider-search-first. The sync map is persisted output/cache, not the canonical source for finding existing items.

Discovery may be partitioned by the provider to stay within search caps. The engine treats provider search results as canonical and consumes the provider's de-duplicated union.

```python
filters = ItemSearchFilters(
    labels=[config.label],
    body_contains=f"PLAN_ID:{plan_id}",
)
existing_items: list[Item] = await provider.search_items(filters)
```

The engine parses the metadata block from each `Item.body` to extract `plan_id` and `item_id`. Items whose `plan_id` matches are indexed into `existing_map: dict[str, Item]`.

**Capability requirement:** Providers must support discovery filters (`labels` + `body_contains`). If unsupported, provider setup fails fast with `ProviderCapabilityError`.

**Metadata marker (renderer-agnostic):**

```text
PLANPILOT_META_V1
PLAN_ID:<plan_id>
ITEM_ID:<item_id>
END_PLANPILOT_META
```

This block must appear verbatim at the top of rendered item bodies for all renderers.

## Phase 2: Upsert

**Goal:** For each PlanItem, create it if it doesn't exist.

**Processing order:** By type level — epics first, then stories, then tasks. Within each level, items are dispatched concurrently (gated by `max_concurrent`).

```python
for item_type in [PlanItemType.EPIC, PlanItemType.STORY, PlanItemType.TASK]:
    level_items = [i for i in plan.items if i.type == item_type]

    async with asyncio.TaskGroup() as tg:
        for plan_item in level_items:
            tg.create_task(self._upsert_item(plan_item, plan_id))

async def _upsert_item(self, plan_item: PlanItem, plan_id: str) -> None:
    parent_entry = sync_map.entries.get(plan_item.parent_id) if plan_item.parent_id else None
    context = RenderContext(
        plan_id=plan_id,
        parent_ref=parent_entry.key if parent_entry else None,
        sub_items=[],
        dependencies={},
    )
    body = renderer.render(plan_item, context)

    if plan_item.id in existing_map:
        item = existing_map[plan_item.id]
    else:
        async with self._semaphore:
            try:
                item = await provider.create_item(input)
            except CreateItemPartialFailureError as exc:
                raise SyncError(...) from exc

    sync_map.entries[plan_item.id] = to_sync_entry(item)
```

**Failure semantics:** `asyncio.TaskGroup` propagates the first exception and cancels remaining tasks in the level (fail-fast). Partially created items are recoverable on next sync via Discovery.

**Dry-run behavior:** Uses `DryRunProvider` implementations of provider methods (in-memory `create/update/search` and no-op relations), so no external API calls occur.

## Phase 3: Enrich

**Goal:** Reconcile existing items with plan-authoritative fields (now that all items exist and have keys).

All items are enriched concurrently (gated by `max_concurrent`), regardless of type level — all keys are resolved by this point.

```python
async with asyncio.TaskGroup() as tg:
    for plan_item in plan.items:
        tg.create_task(self._enrich_item(plan_item, plan_id))

async def _enrich_item(self, plan_item: PlanItem, plan_id: str) -> None:
    parent_entry = sync_map.entries.get(plan_item.parent_id) if plan_item.parent_id else None
    dep_entries = {
        dep_id: sync_map.entries[dep_id].key
        for dep_id in sorted(plan_item.depends_on)
        if dep_id in sync_map.entries
    }
    context = RenderContext(
        plan_id=plan_id,
        parent_ref=parent_entry.key if parent_entry else None,
        sub_items=sorted([(child_entry.key, child_item.title) for child in children], key=lambda p: (p[0], p[1])),
        dependencies=dep_entries,
    )
    body = renderer.render(plan_item, context)

    async with self._semaphore:
        await provider.update_item(entry.id, UpdateItemInput(
            title=plan_item.title, body=body, item_type=plan_item.type,
            labels=[config.label],
            size=plan_item.estimate.tshirt if plan_item.estimate else None,
        ))
```

`validation_mode=partial` behavior:
- Unresolved `parent_id` / `depends_on` references are omitted from `RenderContext`
- Renderer includes only fields provided in the context/item
- Relations for unresolved references are skipped for that run with warnings

**Reconciliation ownership:**
- **Plan-authoritative:** `title`, `body`, `item_type`, `labels`, `size`, relations
- **Labels:** Additive (`ensure config.label present`), not replace-all
- **Provider-authoritative after create:** `status`, `priority`, `iteration` — not overwritten by Enrich

## Phase 4: Relations

**Goal:** Set up parent/child hierarchy and blocked-by dependency links.

Relation calls are dispatched concurrently (gated by `max_concurrent`). Parent and dependency relations are independent and can be set in any order.

```python
async with asyncio.TaskGroup() as tg:
    for item, parent_item in parent_pairs:
        tg.create_task(self._guarded(item.set_parent(parent_item)))
    for item, blocker_item in dependency_pairs:
        tg.create_task(self._guarded(item.add_dependency(blocker_item)))
```

Only resolved relations are dispatched. In `validation_mode=partial`, unresolved references are skipped with warnings (not errors).

**Roll-up logic:** If a child in parent A depends on a child in parent B (A != B), then parent A is blocked by parent B. This rolls up recursively (task deps -> story level, story deps -> epic level). Cyclic edges are de-duplicated and skipped with warnings.

**Note:** The engine stores `Item` objects (not just `SyncEntry`) during upsert for use in relation calls.

## Phase 5: Result

The engine returns `SyncResult` and does **not** persist the sync map to disk — that is the SDK's responsibility.

```python
return SyncResult(sync_map=sync_map, items_created=counters, dry_run=self._dry_run)
```

Sync map persistence (apply mode -> `config.sync_path`, dry-run -> `<sync_path>.dry-run`) is handled by the SDK.

## Sync Map Lifecycle

```mermaid
stateDiagram-v2
    [*] --> Empty: engine starts
    Empty --> Populated: Discovery indexes existing items
    Populated --> Updated: Upsert adds new entries
    Updated --> Enriched: Enrich updates bodies with cross-refs
    Enriched --> Returned: engine returns SyncResult
    Returned --> Persisted: SDK writes to disk
```

## Internal Utilities

| Utility | Signature | Purpose |
|---------|-----------|---------|
| `parse_metadata_block` | `(body: str) -> dict[str, str]` | Extract PLAN_ID, ITEM_ID from metadata block |
| `compute_parent_blocked_by` | `(items: list[PlanItem], item_type: PlanItemType) -> set[tuple[str, str]]` | Roll up child deps to parent level |

Commit message:

fix: reconcile relations, harden workflows, and tighten docs governance (#76)
* docs: align SDK docs and add map-sync/clean design guides

* fix: reconcile sync relations and harden workflows

* fix: address PR review findings and checks

* fix: fetch full git history for gitleaks scan

* test: add coverage for relation reconciliation branches

* test: raise modified-file coverage in provider paths

* docs: add documentation architecture and update policy

* fix: reconcile relations and harden workflows/docs

* chore: add workflow linting and docs governance guidance

* chore: refresh lockfile for pyproject updates

* chore: harden CI toolchain and workflow reliability

* docs: refresh architecture references and add operator guides

* fix: resolve workflow lint regressions

* refactor: simplify relation cache priming and clarify clean flow docs

* fix: quote GitHub search labels for robust discovery

* docs: execute full docs architecture and reference overhaul

* fix: avoid redundant label reconciliation updates

docs/design/engine.md, after:

# Engine Module Spec

The engine module (`engine/`) orchestrates the sync pipeline. It receives a `Plan`, a `Provider`, and a `BodyRenderer` via dependency injection and runs a multi-phase sync that creates/updates work items in the external system.

The engine is the primary consumer of all Contracts (see [contracts.md](contracts.md) for type definitions).

## SyncEngine Class

```python
class SyncEngine:
    def __init__(
        self,
        provider: Provider,
        renderer: BodyRenderer,
        config: PlanPilotConfig,
        *,
        dry_run: bool = False,
    ) -> None: ...

    async def sync(self, plan: Plan, plan_id: str) -> SyncResult: ...
```

The engine receives a fully constructed `Provider`, a `BodyRenderer`, config, and a `dry_run` flag. In apply mode, the provider is already entered/authenticated by the SDK. In dry-run mode, the SDK injects `DryRunProvider` (no external I/O). The `Plan` and its deterministic `plan_id` are passed to `sync()` — the SDK handles plan loading and hash computation.

### Concurrency Model

The engine processes item types sequentially (epics -> stories -> tasks) — parents must exist before children. Within each type level, operations are dispatched concurrently, gated by `asyncio.Semaphore(config.max_concurrent)`.

```python
self._semaphore = asyncio.Semaphore(config.max_concurrent)  # valid range: 1..10

async def _guarded(self, coro: Coroutine) -> T:
    async with self._semaphore:
        return await coro
```

The engine owns dispatch concurrency. The provider owns per-call reliability (retries, backoff). See [providers.md](../modules/providers.md) for the provider-side contract.

**`max_concurrent = 1` (default):** Fully sequential — safe, predictable, no concurrency edge cases.
**`max_concurrent > 1`:** Same-level operations run concurrently. Errors from any task fail the entire level (fail-fast via `asyncio.TaskGroup`).

## Sync Pipeline

```mermaid
flowchart TB
    subgraph Discovery["Phase 1: Discovery"]
        D1["provider.search_items(label + PLAN_ID)"]
        D2["parse metadata blocks from Item.body"]
        D3["build existing_map: dict[item_id, Item]"]
        D1 --> D2 --> D3
    end

    subgraph Upsert["Phase 2: Upsert"]
        U1["for each type level (epics -> stories -> tasks):"]
        U2["concurrent within level (semaphore-gated)"]
        U3{"item in existing_map?"}
        U4["skip create"]
        U5["provider.create_item(CreateItemInput)"]
        U6["sync_map.entries[item.id] = to_sync_entry(item)"]
        U1 --> U2 --> U3
        U3 -- Yes --> U4 --> U6
        U3 -- No --> U5 --> U6
    end

    subgraph Enrich["Phase 3: Enrich"]
        E1["all items concurrent (semaphore-gated)"]
        E2["renderer.render(item, full RenderContext)"]
        E3["provider.update_item(id, UpdateItemInput)"]
        E1 --> E2 --> E3
    end

    subgraph Relations["Phase 4: Relations"]
        R1["all relations concurrent (semaphore-gated)"]
        R2["item.reconcile_relations(parent, blockers)"]
        R3["adds missing and removes stale relations"]
        R1 --> R2 --> R3
    end

    subgraph Result["Phase 5: Result"]
        RT["return SyncResult(sync_map, items_created, dry_run)"]
    end

    Discovery --> Upsert --> Enrich --> Relations --> Result
```

In dry-run mode, the same pipeline runs against `DryRunProvider` so rendering/context logic is exercised without external API calls. The engine returns `SyncResult` and does not persist local files; persistence is caller-owned. In the CLI flow, dry-run output is written to `<sync_path>.dry-run` via `planpilot.cli.persistence.*`.

## Phase 1: Discovery

**Goal:** Find items that already exist in the provider for this plan, so we can skip re-creating them.

**Source of truth:** Provider-search-first. The sync map is persisted output/cache, not the canonical source for finding existing items.

Discovery may be partitioned by the provider to stay within search caps. The engine treats provider search results as canonical and consumes the provider's de-duplicated union.

```python
filters = ItemSearchFilters(
    labels=[config.label],
    body_contains=f"PLAN_ID:{plan_id}",
)
existing_items: list[Item] = await provider.search_items(filters)
```

The engine parses the metadata block from each `Item.body` to extract `plan_id` and `item_id`. Items whose `plan_id` matches are indexed into `existing_map: dict[str, Item]`.

**Capability requirement:** Providers must support discovery filters (`labels` + `body_contains`). If unsupported, provider setup fails fast with `ProviderCapabilityError`.

**Metadata marker (renderer-agnostic):**

```text
PLANPILOT_META_V1
PLAN_ID:<plan_id>
ITEM_ID:<item_id>
END_PLANPILOT_META
```

This block must appear verbatim at the top of rendered item bodies for all renderers.

## Phase 2: Upsert

**Goal:** For each PlanItem, create it if it doesn't exist.

**Processing order:** By type level — epics first, then stories, then tasks. Within each level, items are dispatched concurrently (gated by `max_concurrent`).

```python
for item_type in [PlanItemType.EPIC, PlanItemType.STORY, PlanItemType.TASK]:
    level_items = [i for i in plan.items if i.type == item_type]

    async with asyncio.TaskGroup() as tg:
        for plan_item in level_items:
            tg.create_task(self._upsert_item(plan_item, plan_id))

async def _upsert_item(self, plan_item: PlanItem, plan_id: str) -> None:
    parent_entry = sync_map.entries.get(plan_item.parent_id) if plan_item.parent_id else None
    context = RenderContext(
        plan_id=plan_id,
        parent_ref=parent_entry.key if parent_entry else None,
        sub_items=[],
        dependencies={},
    )
    body = renderer.render(plan_item, context)

    if plan_item.id in existing_map:
        item = existing_map[plan_item.id]
    else:
        async with self._semaphore:
            try:
                item = await provider.create_item(input)
            except CreateItemPartialFailureError as exc:
                raise SyncError(...) from exc

    sync_map.entries[plan_item.id] = to_sync_entry(item)
```

**Failure semantics:** `asyncio.TaskGroup` propagates the first exception and cancels remaining tasks in the level (fail-fast). Partially created items are recoverable on next sync via Discovery.

**Dry-run behavior:** Uses `DryRunProvider` implementations of provider methods (in-memory `create/update/search` and no-op relations), so no external API calls occur.

## Phase 3: Enrich

**Goal:** Reconcile existing items with plan-authoritative fields (now that all items exist and have keys).

All items are enriched concurrently (gated by `max_concurrent`), regardless of type level — all keys are resolved by this point.

```python
async with asyncio.TaskGroup() as tg:
    for plan_item in plan.items:
        tg.create_task(self._enrich_item(plan_item, plan_id))

async def _enrich_item(self, plan_item: PlanItem, plan_id: str) -> None:
    parent_entry = sync_map.entries.get(plan_item.parent_id) if plan_item.parent_id else None
    dep_entries = {
        dep_id: sync_map.entries[dep_id].key
        for dep_id in sorted(plan_item.depends_on)
        if dep_id in sync_map.entries
    }
    context = RenderContext(
        plan_id=plan_id,
        parent_ref=parent_entry.key if parent_entry else None,
        sub_items=sorted([(child_entry.key, child_item.title) for child in children], key=lambda p: (p[0], p[1])),
        dependencies=dep_entries,
    )
    body = renderer.render(plan_item, context)

    async with self._semaphore:
        await provider.update_item(entry.id, UpdateItemInput(
            title=plan_item.title, body=body, item_type=plan_item.type,
            labels=[config.label],
            size=plan_item.estimate.tshirt if plan_item.estimate else None,
        ))
```

`validation_mode=partial` behavior:
- Unresolved `parent_id` / `depends_on` references are omitted from `RenderContext`
- Renderer includes only fields provided in the context/item
- Relations for unresolved references are skipped for that run with warnings

**Reconciliation ownership:**
- **Plan-authoritative:** `title`, `body`, `item_type`, `labels`, `size`, relations
- **Labels:** Additive (`ensure config.label present`), not replace-all
- **Provider-authoritative after create:** `status`, `priority`, `iteration` — not overwritten by Enrich

## Phase 4: Relations

**Goal:** Set up parent/child hierarchy and blocked-by dependency links.

Relation reconciliation calls are dispatched concurrently (gated by `max_concurrent`).

```python
async with asyncio.TaskGroup() as tg:
    for item in relation_targets:
        tg.create_task(self._guarded(
            item.reconcile_relations(parent=desired_parent.get(item.id), blockers=desired_blockers.get(item.id, []))
        ))
```

Only resolved relations are dispatched. In `validation_mode=partial`, unresolved references are skipped with warnings (not errors).
Relation handling is reconciliation-based: stale parent/dependency links are removed when no longer present in the desired plan state.

**Roll-up logic:** If a child in parent A depends on a child in parent B (A != B), then parent A is blocked by parent B. This rolls up recursively (task deps -> story level, story deps -> epic level). Cyclic edges are de-duplicated and skipped with warnings.

**Note:** The engine stores `Item` objects (not just `SyncEntry`) during upsert for use in relation calls.

## Phase 5: Result

The engine returns `SyncResult` and does **not** persist local files.

```python
return SyncResult(sync_map=sync_map, items_created=counters, dry_run=self._dry_run)
```

Sync map persistence (apply mode -> `config.sync_path`, dry-run -> `<sync_path>.dry-run`) is caller-owned.
In the CLI, persistence is handled by `planpilot.cli.persistence.*`.

## Sync Map Lifecycle

```mermaid
stateDiagram-v2
    [*] --> Empty: engine starts
    Empty --> Populated: Discovery indexes existing items
    Populated --> Updated: Upsert adds new entries
    Updated --> Enriched: Enrich updates bodies with cross-refs
    Enriched --> Returned: engine returns SyncResult
    Returned --> Persisted: CLI/caller writes to disk
```

## Internal Utilities

| Utility | Signature | Purpose |
|---------|-----------|---------|
| `parse_metadata_block` | `(body: str) -> dict[str, str]` | Extract PLAN_ID, ITEM_ID from metadata block |
| `compute_parent_blocked_by` | `(items: list[PlanItem], item_type: PlanItemType) -> set[tuple[str, str]]` | Roll up child deps to parent level |
